Hi, and welcome back.
In this video, we're going to look at using the
requests library to download page content so that
we can then parse it with BeautifulSoup.
The first thing to do is, once again,
we're going to instal a library.
Let's go over to our Preferences which,
remember on a Mac, is under PyCharm
Community Edition, and Preferences.
On Windows, I believe, it's under File.
And it should be down there somewhere.
Let's go to your Preferences, and once again,
find the Project section here, and then
go into the Project Interpreter.
Press the plus icon down here,
and find the requests library.
You can see that I've already got it installed,
but if you don't have it installed yet, just press instal.
Okay, I've got it here so, I'm going to
press instal, actually, to just to update it.
Update it to the latest version, and that should be fine.
Okay, now when we've got it installed, we can use
the requests library from within our Python code.
So, let's create a new Python file,
that I'm going to call
scraping_books.py.
And here we're going to do import requests.
We're also going to do from bs4 import BeautifulSoup.
Now, if you want to find out the page content
and download the pages in Python, all you'll
ever have to do, is do something like this.
Page = requests.get
and then, as a string, you must
put the page that you want to load.
So that's, for example, http://www.example.com,
and then, print(page.content).
So example.com is a sample site that
you can also use just to test things out.
And what's happening here is we're asking
the requests module, and we're calling
the get function within that module.
The get function
does some
http
transactions in the background,
some http requests.
It's a bit more technical than
we're going to go into in this course.
But essentially, it goes and asks the server
that is where the website is stored,
for the page.
And then the server can decide to respond with the page
content, or it can decide to respond with something else.
The server can basically decide what to do
when this happens, when we ask it.
And hopefully, it will respond with the page content.
That's what normally happens.
Once we've got that,
we receive the page content,
and also a couple more small bits of information,
like a status code, which tells us whether
there was an error or not, and a few more things.
The other things are not terribly important.
The content is what we're most interested in.
So the requests module converts that response
that comes from the server, that's in that
sort of complex format, converts it into an object in
Python that we can then access the content property of.
So let's run this file and see what happens.
As you can see, we get a string here.
It's a pretty long string because the contents
get downloaded all into a single line.
But you can see that there's a <p> tag in here:
This domain is established to be used
for illustrative examples in documents.
So this is what we're doing.
So this is what the example.com website looks like.
It's got a <h1> tag, a <p> tag,
and some more information, which is a link.
And if you right-click it and inspect it,
which is what I've done here, you see that
you get the body, which is the main section in html.
Then there's a <div> which is just a block of content,
and inside that <div> we've got three main tags.
The <h1> tag, the <p> tag, which contains
the paragraph, and another <p> tag, which
contains an <a> tag, which is a link.
And that has an attribute 'href',
which is the link that it goes to,
and the text inside it is more information.
So let's go back to PyCharm, and we're
going to try to parse through this html code.
Essentially it'll respond with something like this.
The html of the page.
So if we wanted, we could parse
it with BeautifulSoup as well.
We could do something like soup = BeautifulSoup
of the page.content and, of course, we must give it
the 'html.parser' and then we can print,
for example, print(soup.find), there's an h1 on the page,
I know this because I've looked at the page before,
.string, and then we could print this out.
And you can see that we get Example Domain out.
All we did here is nothing new.
We got the page content, this is new.
Then the other things are not new.
We created a BeautifulSoup object,
we parsed it in the page content,
that's the html content of the page,
given it the 'html.parser', cause that's
what it's gonna use to parse through
the content and try to understand it.
And finally, we found 'h1' and we've printed as a string.
Okay.
The new thing here is this get.
And all we're doing, you can think
of it as, getting the page content.
What's happening in the background is
a bit more technical, as I mentioned earlier.
Nothing you should be worrying about.
Also, you can of course, do everything
we did in the last few videos.
You can do soup.select_one, and then you can give
it a different type of locator,
like this one,
'href'.
And here, what we're accessing is,
the <a> tag, which is within a <p> tag,
and we're accessing the 'href' attribute of that.
So this is going to be a link.
Can run this again.
Oh, sorry, this should be square brackets, my bad.
And we get now, this link here.
So, this is an example of how you may
go about downloading a page and accessing
some properties and some tags in it.
We're going to look at another example in the coming
videos with some more interesting things going on.
We're gonna look at that book store that we saw earlier on.
And we're going to start, sort of, understanding
multiple pieces of data at the same time.
So, with that said, I'll see you on the next video.